Portuguese India
The State of India (Portuguese: Estado da Índia), also referred as the Portuguese State of India (Estado Português da Índia, EPI) or simply Portuguese India (Índia Portuguesa), was a state of the Portuguese Empire founded six years after the discovery of a sea route to the Indian subcontinent by Vasco da Gama, a subject of the Kingdom of Portugal. The capital of Portuguese India served as the governing centre of a string of military forts and trading posts scattered all over the Indian Ocean.
The first viceroy, Francisco de Almeida established his base of operations at Fort Manuel, after the Kingdom of Cochin negotiated to become a protectorate of Portugal in 1505. With the Portuguese conquest of Goa from the Bijapur Sultanate in 1510, Goa became the major anchorage for the Portuguese Armadas arriving in India. The capital of the viceroyalty was transferred from Cochin in the Malabar region to Goa in 1530. From 1535, Mumbai (Bombay) was a harbour of Portuguese India as Bom Bahia, until it was handed over via the dowry of Catherine Braganza, to Charles II of England in 1661.  The expression "State of India" began regularly appearing in documents in the mid-16th century.Until the 18th century, the viceroy at Goa had authority over all Portuguese possessions in and around the Indian Ocean, from Southern Africa to Southeast Asia. In 1752, Mozambique got its own separate government, from 1844 onwards Portuguese Goa stopped administering Macao, Solor, and Timor.
In later years, Portugal's authority was confined to holdings in the Canara, Cambay, and Konkan regions, along the west coast of India. At the time of the dissolution of the British Raj in 1947, Portuguese India comprised three administrative divisions, sometimes referred to collectively as Goa: namely Goa which included Anjediva; and Daman, which included the exclaves of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Dio districts. The Salazar regime of Portugal lost de facto control of Dadra and Nagar Haveli in 1954. Finally, the rest of the overseas territory was lost in December 1961 with the Indian Annexation of Goa under PM Nehru. Portugal only recognised Indian control after the Carnation Revolution and the fall of the Estado Novo regime by a treaty signed on 31 December 1974.